May Cloud Release Notes (#16859)
cockroachdb/docs: _includes/releases/cloud/2023-05-01.md

<h3> General changes </h3>

The following changes were made to {{ site.data.products.serverless }} for **new organizations** created on or after April 26, 2023. **Existing organizations will not be affected until August 1, 2023**.

- The price of [Request Units (RUs)](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-request-units.html) increased from $1 per 10M RU to $2 per 10M RUs.
- The price of [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) decreased from $1 per 1 GiB storage to $0.50 per 1 GiB storage.
- Free resources are allocated on a per-organization basis instead of a per-cluster basis. All organizations will now receive 50M Request Units per month and 10 GiB of storage for free.
- All resources are available instantly at the beginning of each month (burst and baseline RUs are now deprecated).
- You can now [set separate RU and storage limits](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for your clusters, or set a spend limit that will be divided between resources automatically.
- You can now [set unlimited resources](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for a cluster so your workload is never restricted.

> - Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free Serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **We will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **Cockroach Labs will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 
```

> - Organizations can now create 200 Serverless clusters instead of the previous limit of five total clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Organizations can now create up to 200 serverless instead of the previous maximum of five total clusters.
```

For an in-depth explanation of {{ site.data.products.serverless }} pricing, see [Learn About Pricing](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-pricing.html). For any questions or concerns, please [contact us](https://cockroachlabs.com/support).

<h3> Console changes </h3>

> - {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} users can now [use the Cloud Console for full-cluster restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html?filters=dedicated#restore-a-cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} users can now [use Cloud Console for full-cluster restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html?filters=dedicated#restore-a-cluster).
```

> - The [**Access Management** page](../cockroachcloud/managing-access.html) in the Cloud Console now only shows relevant content based on the [user's role](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [**Access Management** page](../cockroachcloud/managing-access.html) in Cloud Console now shows only relevant content based on the [user's role assignments](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles).
```

<h3> Cloud API changes </h3>

> - [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) responses now contain a header called `Cc-Trace-Id` that can be given to [Support](https://cockroachlabs.com/support) for diagnostics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) responses now contain a header called `Cc-Trace-Id` that can be provided to [Support](https://cockroachlabs.com/support) to help with diagnostics or troubleshooting.
```

- The `CreateCluster` and `UpdateCluster` methods now support setting individual monthly limits for a cluster's [Request Units](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#request-unit-ru) and [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) usage.

> - If your organization is enrolled in the new authorization model described under **Security Updates**, you can assign the [new roles](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) to both users and service accounts using the [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) or [Terraform provider](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html) in addition to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your organization is enrolled in the new fine-grained authorization model described under **Security Updates**, you can assign the [new roles](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) to both users and service accounts using the [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) or [Terraform provider](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html) in addition to {{ site.data.products.db }} Console. 
```

  
- You can now use client certificates to authenticate to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. First, a [cluster administrator](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) needs to upload a CA certificate for the cluster using the [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) or [Terraform provider](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html). After that, individual users can be assigned client certificates signed by the uploaded CA certificate, which they can then use to connect to the cluster. This feature is in [limited access](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html), and you can enroll your organization by contacting your account team.

<h3> Bug fixes </h3>

> - The [**Connect to your cluster**](../cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.html) modal and [**Databases** page](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) in the Console now respond significantly faster for clusters with over 100 databases.

Reviewer: "modal" feels like jargon. What about calling it a dialog or a form?

> - Fixed a bug where table and database [restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html) were disabled for clusters running CockroachDB versions earlier than [v22.2.7](v22.2.html#v22-2-7).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where table and database [restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html) were disabled for clusters running CockroachDB version [v22.2.7](v22.2.html#v22-2-7) or below.
```
Or do you really mean "earlier than" in which case, v22.2.6 or below?

- All resources are available instantly at the beginning of each month (burst and baseline RUs are now deprecated).
- You can now [set separate RU and storage limits](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for your clusters, or set a spend limit that will be divided between resources automatically.
- You can now [set unlimited resources](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for a cluster so your workload is never restricted.

> - Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free Serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **Cockroach Labs will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **Cockroach Labs will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 
```

> - Organizations can now create 200 Serverless clusters instead of the previous maximum of five total clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Organizations can now create 200 serverless clusters instead of the previous maximum of five total clusters.
```
